well I Heidi their internet people it's
Bo again so this is part two of our
Veterans Day special where we are going
through all of America's conflicts at
least all the ones I can think of not
just the major ones that are in history
books so we're just going to jump right
back in where we left off the Apache
Wars ran from 1851 until about 1924
wasn't constant it was skirmishes over
and over again interesting piece of this
is Geronimo of course and the US
military put 5,000 men in the field to
deal with Geronimo and his 30 guys all
right we've got a bleeding of Kansas
Bleeding Kansas
that's 1854 to 1861 this was the Civil
Wars rehearsal it was to determine
whether or not Kansas was going to be a
slave state he have the Puget Sound War
from 1855 to 1856 now this is seen as a
part of the akima war and separate from
it it's weird the one of the most
notable things about this is that there
was a chief who was executed for murder
during the war the US was really bad
about native rights in almost every
respect however typically typically they
were seen as combatants and they were
treated like that this is a case where
that didn't happen they had to try them
twice the first one ended in a hung jury
and the second the second they convicted
you have the first Fiji expedition
that's 1855 so there was a civil war
going on and I'm an American agent
American businessman his house caught
fire was burned something like that and
the US Navy showed up and demanded money
you have the Rogue River Wars that's
1855 to 1856 that was a another land
grab up in Oregon the third Seminole War
the akima war the wider one more land
grabbing the Second Opium War 1856 to
1859 real history buffs right now are
gone we weren't involved in that and
that's right they're right for some
reason it is now kind of being taught
that we were we weren't we were there at
the same time the US Navy was there a
merchant US ship was fired upon so the
US Navy took some forts and then said no
we're neutral in the war but at the same
time secretly helped out the French and
British let's see the Utah war 1857 and
1858 this was minor skirmishes between
Mormons and the US military no joke the
Navajo Wars
that's a 1858 to 1866 now this ended
with the long walk I didn't talk about
the Trail of Tears but I just remember
the all native groups that got moved
they all went through that and the in
various ways
this was the Navajo the long walk
anyway second Figi expedition 1859 I
could be wrong about this one I'm a
little hazy on this but I want to say
that there was a rumor
that two Americans were literally had
for lunch by some natives let's see John
Brown's raid 1859 first and second
Cortina war that's 1859 1860 when that
was a ranch war the ranch war the Civil
War of course 1861 to 1865 let's see the
Dakota war 1862 to the land grabbed the
Colorado War 1863 and 1865 a land grab
even during the Civil War this was still
going on shamone Osaki campaign in 1863
to 1864 okay
the Tokugawa Shogun that was pretty
friendly to outside influence however
other elements within Japan will not and
at some point the kind of command went
out to expel the barbarians that's us
and in the process of that a merchant
ship was attacked the US Navy got
involved let's see we've got the snake
war that's 1864 to 1868 the land grab
Powder River War 1865 land grab Red
Cloud's war 1866 to 1868 interesting
thing about this one the natives won the
Formosa expedition in 1867 that's
pirates in Taiwan the Comanche campaign
1867 to 1875 wasn't only against
Comanche so the Korean expedition in
1871 we were in their waters they shot
at us and we shot at them the Modoc
campaign
that's 1872 in 1873 the Red River War
1874 1875 that ended the Texas Indian
Wars let's see the Great Sioux war 1876
buffalo hunters war 1876 to 77 as Pierce
war 1877 Bannock war 1878 Cheyenne war
1878 to 1879 she beaters war 1879 White
River War 1879 to 1880 all of these are
land grabs Pine Ridge Campaign 1892 1891
that's Wounded Knee that's when that
happened
second Samoan Civil War 1898 to 1899
that was at the end of this Germany the
UK in the u.s. divided up the area the
spanish-american war 1898 remember the
Maine and then come to find out it
probably wasn't attacked by the Spanish
but that triggered that war so during
that war we supported the Filipinos and
immediately after that war ends you have
the philippine-american war which is
1899 to 1902 because they were not
really happy about the idea of just
becoming just having us become their new
rulers they kind of thought that they
were gonna get freedom after kicking the
Spanish out see the Boxer Rebellion 1899
to 1901 crazy snake rebellion in 1909
that's an interesting one so there was
the accusation that either the natives
or their african-american friends stole
some smoked meat and the sheriff formed
a posse to go get them
and both the natives and and the
african-americans realized they're
probably not going to get justice so it
sparked a little rebellion
the border war 1910 to 1916 think poncho
via the armed uprising of independence
of color now this was in 1912 in Cuba
basically black Cubans had had enough
they were done and that they fought back
and they did really well against the
Cuban military and then their president
contacted the u.s. and the Marines went
down this is what I would consider the
start of the banana Wars and this seems
like a good place to take a little break
in this series we'll be back shortly
with the rest of it we are going to
highlight the next hundred years but
again we're showcasing that as much as
we talk about other countries being war
mongering you can't find many years of
peace in US history we're always at war
we just don't always talk about as
militaristic as we are we like to forget
about a lot of this because looking back
at it through clearer eyes a lot of this
wasn't just any way it's just a thought
y'all have a good night